README.md, before:

# This project is a shopping list service, 
 
### Tecnology
This project is built in java 8 with spring boot and the following dependencies 
- Mongodb as data repository and 
- Redis as distributed lock.
- RabbitMQ as message broker

The project comes ready with an instance of Gradle wrapper. 

## Building
To run the build for the project execute the following command from the project's root directory

```
./gradlew build
```

## Testing 
To run the tests for the project execute the following command from the project's root directory:

```
./gradlew clean test integrationTest testAcceptanceLocal -i
```
* `test` - executes unit tests
* `integrationTest` - executes spring-boot tests
* `testAcceptanceLocal` - executes cucumber tests 

## Running

### Docker 
 It is possible to launch the application as a container, in this case you need to have docker installed in your server,
  and then you just need to execute the next command in the project's root:
  
```
docker-compose up.
```

### Terminal 
This is a Spring Boot application, so it is packed as a jar. 
To start the app, execute:
```
java -jar <pathToJar>.jar

```
- after run the command "./gradlew build", you can find the jar on "/build/libs/statistc-service-0.0.1.jar" from the project's root

You need to set environment variables for the mongo host (SHOPPINGLIST_MONGO_1_PORT_27017_TCP_ADDR) and port (MONGO_PORT_27017_TCP_PORT).

### Trying the API

To Create a new Shopping list
 POST to localhost:8080/shopping/list
 
 payload 
    ```
    {
    		"owner": "1234",
    		"users": ["1111", "2222"],
    		"listItemList": [
    			{
    				"item": {
    					"name": "name",
    					"description": "description1"
    				},
    				"quantity": 10,
    				"version": 1,
    				"isChecked": "false"
    			},
    			{
    				"item": {	
    					"name": "name name",
    					"description": "description2"
    				},
    				"quantity": 20,
    				"version": 1,
    				"isChecked": "true"
    			}
    		]
    	}
    ```
    
  It will return an ID, this I id should be use to retrieve the list
  
  ```
  localhost:8080/shopping/list/{listId}
  ```
    
##TODO
- Insert the auth mechanism, Insert a new annotation in the Services that should be accessible only for authenticated users.
This will basically read the auth token from header and valid in the auth api. It can make sure the user is logged in an have the authorization for
the given operation.

- It need to use mongo to keep the version of the document, in order to make sure I have the right version before update I will use the document version in mongo.

- The strategy to handle concurrency will be at start an optimistic lock, I picked redis at first but I want to test it direct in Mongo,
 I believe I can have the same result using only Mongo. So I want to investigate it before.
 
- Create an abstraction between Mongo and the business layer.

- Create a health for the external dependencies (mongo, auth system, Rabbit and Redis)

- Externalize application configuration with environment variable i.e. port and application context  

- Insert a live documentation i.e. Swagger

## Diagram

### Solution design

![Solution](diagram/solution.png?raw=true "Solution design")

### Sequence diagrams

![Retrieve list](diagram/retrieve-list.png?raw=true "Sequence diagram - retrieve list")

![Update list](diagram/update-list.png?raw=true "Sequence diagram - update list")

![Share list](diagram/share-list.png?raw=true "Sequence diagram - share list")

Commit message:

insert cache explanation on README

README.md, after:

# This project is a shopping list service, 
 
### Tecnology
This project is built in java 8 with spring boot and the following dependencies 
- Mongodb as data repository and 
- Redis as distributed lock.
- RabbitMQ as message broker

The project comes ready with an instance of Gradle wrapper. 

## Building
To run the build for the project execute the following command from the project's root directory

```
./gradlew build
```

## Testing 
To run the tests for the project execute the following command from the project's root directory:

```
./gradlew clean test integrationTest testAcceptanceLocal -i
```
* `test` - executes unit tests
* `integrationTest` - executes spring-boot tests
* `testAcceptanceLocal` - executes cucumber tests 

## Running

### Docker 
 It is possible to launch the application as a container, in this case you need to have docker installed in your server,
  and then you just need to execute the next command in the project's root:
  
```
docker-compose up.
```

### Terminal 
This is a Spring Boot application, so it is packed as a jar. 
To start the app, execute:
```
java -jar <pathToJar>.jar

```
- after run the command "./gradlew build", you can find the jar on "/build/libs/statistc-service-0.0.1.jar" from the project's root

You need to set environment variables for the mongo host (SHOPPINGLIST_MONGO_1_PORT_27017_TCP_ADDR) and port (MONGO_PORT_27017_TCP_PORT).

### Trying the API

To Create a new Shopping list
 POST to localhost:8080/shopping/list
 
 payload 
    ```
    {
    		"owner": "1234",
    		"users": ["1111", "2222"],
    		"listItemList": [
    			{
    				"item": {
    					"name": "name",
    					"description": "description1"
    				},
    				"quantity": 10,
    				"version": 1,
    				"isChecked": "false"
    			},
    			{
    				"item": {	
    					"name": "name name",
    					"description": "description2"
    				},
    				"quantity": 20,
    				"version": 1,
    				"isChecked": "true"
    			}
    		]
    	}
    ```
    
  It will return an ID, this I id should be use to retrieve the list
  
  ```
  localhost:8080/shopping/list/{listId}
  ```
    
##TODO
- Insert the auth mechanism, Insert a new annotation in the Services that should be accessible only for authenticated users.
This will basically read the auth token from header and valid in the auth api. It can make sure the user is logged in an have the authorization for
the given operation.

- It need to use mongo to keep the version of the document, in order to make sure I have the right version before update I will use the document version in mongo.

- The strategy to handle concurrency will be at start an optimistic lock, I picked redis at first but I want to test it direct in Mongo,
 I believe I can have the same result using only Mongo. So I want to investigate it before.
 
- Create an abstraction between Mongo and the business layer.

- Create a health for the external dependencies (mongo, auth system, Rabbit and Redis)

- Externalize application configuration with environment variable i.e. port and application context  

- Insert a live documentation i.e. Swagger

## Diagram

### Solution design

![Solution](diagram/solution.png?raw=true "Solution design")


***I inserted Redis as a cache in the design, but I would test the application's performance before make optimizations.***
### Sequence diagrams

![Retrieve list](diagram/retrieve-list.png?raw=true "Sequence diagram - retrieve list")

![Update list](diagram/update-list.png?raw=true "Sequence diagram - update list")

![Share list](diagram/share-list.png?raw=true "Sequence diagram - share list")
